Hello and welcome to the fourth section
of the R programming course. Are you
pumped? Because I am super pumped I 'm
super excited about this section. I have
prepared an awesome data set for
you guys and we're going to learn a lot
about R while performing a very
exciting challenge.
Ok basketball trends, project brief what
do we have here?
Well first of all for those of you who
don't know what the NBA is, I understand a
lot of you guys know what the NBA is but
still we have students from all over the
world so the NBA is the national
basketball association in America and
that is the main basketball league and
most of the players that you've heard of
like firing Michael Jordan, they play and
played in the NBA. So we're going to be
analyzing the NBA players.
Alright what we're going to do you here?Well
we're going to take the top ten paid
players right now.
There they are on your screen the
highest-paid players of the 2015-2016
season and there they are, their salaries.
This is all publicly available
information and we're going to take all
these 10 players and we're going to
analyze how have they been playing over
the past 10 years.
Imagine that we're going to take data
for the past 10 years and we are going to look
at how they've been playing in those
years. So your goal for this challenge is
to simply investigate trends and
patterns that you see in their
performance over the past 10 years
because ultimately they haven't always
been at the top 10 players right? Let's
see how they got there. Let's see how
they have been improving and was being
changing about their game and so on and
don't worry if you don't know anything
about basketball I was in a very similar
situation but you will literally
understand everything as we go through, I
will make sure to cover off all of the
basic knowledge that we'll need and we will
have heaps of fun. So let's quickly have
a look at the stats that we'll be
analyzing. Here we've got stats for one
of the players and the basketball fans
can you guess who this player is and
here you can see this player stats for
his full professional career and what I
have outlined in red are the stats
that I'll be looking at. Alright so going
from left to right, here we've got the
years that we'll be looking at, 2005-2006
is the first season and 2014-2015 is the
final season will be looking at. Why aren't we looking at the current 2015-16 season?
Well that is because at the time of
making this video this season isn't yet
finished. So I didn't want to look at
data that's the for incomplete
season if you're a hardcore basketball
fan page you want to have the most
up-to-date data and when you're watching
this video this season is finished then
feel free also we finish this section
you can go back and just modify the data
and by then you will know how to do that
and then you can just re updated and
performance the same analysis or whatever
analysis you may wish to with the new
data it's all possible after this
section. You will know how to do it.
Alright so then we'll be looking at
this column. This is the total games
played by this player in each of those
seasons then here we've got MPG which
stands for minutes per game and we won't
be looking at minutes per game that's
one of the tables that we'll derive. We'll
actually have an input table of the
total minutes that player played in that
whole season and then here we've got FG
percentage I know this all looks
complicated but it really isn't. So the
FG stands for field goals. So how
many basketball did that person a throw
into the hoop during the game. So not
when they get penalties but actually
while they're playing, so either two
points or three points. How many what is
the accuracy of that player? Once again
we won't be looking at this exact table.
This is one of the tables we'll derive
and that is part of our challenge, we
will have a table on the actual number
of field goals and we will have a table
on the number of field goal attempt. So
basically if you divide one number by
the other than you'll get this
percentage and finally here we've got
the points per game, once again this is
the number of points that a player
scored in that whole seasons per game
but we will have a table of the total
number of points the person has
scored in that season. So there we go,
we'll have lots of input data you'll see
that's going to be quite a lot of it,
it's going to be enormous compared to
what we've seen before but nevertheless
we'll follow through it and this is one of
the beauties of this section because now
we're ready to jump into the world of
R and analysis and data because we've
done all the foundations of programming,
fundamentals of R and now is the time
for the fun stuff.
Ok so this is what we're doing, where do
you get the data?
Well let me show you. If you go to as
previously, you go to www.superdatascience.com/rcourse
right? So if
you go to this website as we did in the
previous sections and you go to scroll
down to section 4 matrices then the data
set is this second file over here. So the
first file is the challenge that is that
presentation that we just looked at and
the basketball data set that's what
we're going to be using throughout the
course, then these will come later when
we're finishing this section.
Ok so once you've downloaded this file
let me show you what it looks like
inside. This is what, this is what it
looks like inside and to get here what
you need to do is once you've downloaded
it you need to unzip the file and what
you will see is first this will be the
zip file to downloaded. Once you unzip it,
it'll be just the basketball,
s4-basketballdata.r file so just
open it just like the way I just did so
open a file from our student and open this
file and once you have the file this is
what it will look like. So I've got some
comments, I wrote you a little comment over
here.
Welcome to the world of basketball data.
I'm sure you will enjoy this section of
the R programming course and I sure am
sure you will enjoy it. So here you've
got some instructions for the data set
but I won't bore you by reading all of this.
I'll just tell you what you have to do,
all you have to do is once you have got
this file, just click control A if you're in
a windows machine or command A if you're
on a Mac and select everything basically,
select all of the lines. It's lots and lots
of lines here, you see like we're not
going to go through them right now.
What's what's going on but we're just
going to execute them, so just run these
lines, command enter or control enter and
once you run these lines what you'll see
is you
get the data. So basically this script
is used to supply your data. That's
because we haven't had studied how to
import data from files and so on and it's
bit early for us that will come later in
the course but don't worry we'll get
there but for now this is just the
easiest way for us to get the data into
our environment, so once you have the
data, there we go.
It's all populated, I know if this might
look like a lot and it might look a bit
overwhelming at first but don't worry
that's what data science is about
there'll be lots and lots of data and our
goal is to learn how to manage it and
how to analyze it right? So let's go to a
new file because once we loaded this
data we don't really have to
continue that script right? That's the
beauty of R studio that this data
has been loaded into the environment and
we can use it in a brand new script so
in order not to play around with this
script. Just create a new one and we
will start our section here so we're not
going to do any programming in this
tutorial per se. This tutorial was just to
show you the data but what I did want to
show you is just an example of one of
the elements of data that we have. So
let's say we want to look at the
salaries. We've already seen the salaries.
Let's say we want to look at salary.
We see that there's an object here
called salary so if we just type in salary
as we know and run this, what we will get,
let me just make some more space here
because this is a big object and they
were go it fits. So what we'll
get is the salaries of these players so
here are the top 10 players that are the
top 10 now once again they haven't
always been the top 10 but we want to
see how they have been progressing
throughout their careers in the past 10
years. So the players are top-10 paid
players right now we we have a table on
all of their salaries. So what their
salary was back in 2005, 2006, 2007
and all the way up to 2014.
Now what you might say is that the Kirill,
we haven't learned how to deal with
tables yet
and in fact this table has a name it's a
matrix and that's correct, we don't know
how to deal with matrices yet. We know
how to deal with vectors but not
matrices
and that's exactly what we will attend
to in the next tutorial. We will talk
about matrices and we'll learn
everything about them and we will learn
how to build matrices and that is the
goal of this section, to learn how to
operate with matrices so that's kind of
like a step up from a vector and on that
note let's finish this tutorial
go ahead and load the data into your
machines and I will see you on the next
tutorial and until then, happy coding!